---
ID: 504
post_title: Unit 4
author: castellon
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/ldrs627-su18/2018/03/31/unit-4/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-31 17:40:37
---
<strong>Unit 4: Goals and Objectives</strong>

<strong>Overview</strong>

It is important to set clear learning targets in three areas - affective, cognitive and behavioral - because doing so provides learners with clarity of what is expected and also helps limit and focus the amount of material you will try to teach. Clear goals and objectives also help to manage, monitor and evaluate the training.

Setting learning targets should happen with consideration of learners’ needs.  If possible, a pre-assessment is advisable. Or, try to find out about the general profile of learners so that you can plan accordingly for relevant learning experiences. Once you have an idea of what the learners’ needs are and the content and skills that the organization desires to be addressed, you can set goals and objectives.  Setting the goals and objectives prior to designing the learning opportunities ensures more alignment and helps to avoid "activitizing," that is, doing activities that are not connected to the learning outcomes because they are fun, you have the resources, etc.

When writing goals and objectives there is a format to follow to ensure you are specific about what you want participants to learn and the results you want to achieve. The format you will learn and practice in this unit follows the <a href="https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/essential-guide-writing-smart-goals">SMART</a> OR SMARTER acronym.

&nbsp;

<strong>Topics</strong>

<ol>
    <li>Writing Goals</li>
    <li>Writing Objectives</li>
    <li>Ethical goals and objectives</li>
</ol>

<strong> </strong>

<strong>Learning Outcomes:</strong>

When you have completed this unit you should be able to:

<ul>
    <li>Explain the importance of setting clear learning targets.</li>
    <li>Write SMART goals.</li>
    <li>Write SMART objectives that align with the goal and focus on what you want participants to value, understand or do with given content.</li>
</ul>

&nbsp;

<strong>Activity Checklist</strong>

Here is a checklist of learning activities you will benefit from in completing this unit. You may find it useful for planning your work.

<ol>
<li>Read Silberman, M. L., &amp; Biech, E. (2015). <em>Active training: A handbook of techniques, designs, case examples, and tips (4th ed.).</em> Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons (Pages 13-18 and Chap. 1)</p></li>
<li><p>Write a Blog Post. In SMART format, and colour coded with a legend (eg S = one colour, M = a different colour, etc.), write one affective, one behavioural and one cognitive goal that you have for taking this course. Comment on how writing clear goals for yourself about this course might impact your performance and motivation. Respond to at least two others’ blogs.  See if you can clearly determine the "SMARTness" of their goals. Your comments may be to ask them more about their personal goals and any connections to what they have identified.</p></li>
<li><p>Write a Blog Post. In SMART format, and colour coded with a legend (eg S = one colour, M = a different colour, etc.), write two objectives for each goal. Comment on how writing clear objectives might encourage individual progress monitoring.</p></li>
<li><p>Read Silberman, M. L., &amp; Biech, E. (2015). <em>Active training: A handbook of techniques, designs, case examples, and tips (4th ed.).</em> Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons (Chapters. 2, 15 and 17).</p></li>
</ol>

<p>5.<strong> </strong>View <a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/barry_schwartz_using_our_practical_wisdom?utm_campaign=tedspread&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_source=tedcomshare">video</a> of psychologist Barry Schwartz diving into the question "<em>How do we do the right thing?</em>" With help from collaborator Kenneth Sharpe, he shares stories that illustrate the difference between following the rules and truly choosing wisely. This has implications for the goals and objectives we set so listen with this in mind.

<ol>
<li>Write a Blog Post: Describe an activity, exercise or learning moment that you have experienced that led to more personal awareness, empowerment, higher self-esteem and personal significance.</p></li>
<li><p>Complete Reading Response Assignment</p></li>
</ol>

<p><strong> </strong>

<strong>Topic 1: Writing goals</strong>

<strong>Introduction</strong>

Peter Drucker, American management consultant, educator, and author, is credited with coming up with the components or criteria of SMART goals.  It has been written about by others since then (<a href="http://community.mis.temple.edu/mis0855002fall2015/files/2015/10/S.M.A.R.T-Way-Management-Review.pdf">Doran, G., 1981</a>; <a href="http://www.siop.org/tip/backissues/tipapr02/03rubin.aspx">Rubin, R. (2002)</a>.

To make sure your goals are clear and reachable, each one should be:

<ul>
    <li><strong>S</strong>pecific (simple, sensible, significant).</li>
    <li><strong>M</strong>easurable (meaningful, motivating).</li>
    <li><strong>A</strong>chievable (agreed, attainable).</li>
    <li><strong>R</strong>elevant (reasonable, realistic and resourced, results-based).</li>
    <li><strong>T</strong>ime bound (time-based, time limited, time/cost limited, timely, time-sensitive).</li>
</ul>

&nbsp;

Professor Rubin also notes that the definition of the SMART acronym may need updating to reflect the importance of efficacy and feedback. However, some authors have expanded it to include extra focus areas; <a href="https://leadersyndrome.files.wordpress.com/2015/03/deltanomix-leadersyndrome-smarter-goals.pdf">SMARTER,</a> for example, includes <strong>E</strong>valuated and <strong>R</strong>eviewed.  E can also refer to Ethical.  When you practice writing your SMART goals for this unit, define the acronym according to the prominent usage outlined above in the bullet points.

&nbsp;

To develop SMART Goals follow this format:

By ______________________ (When?) (Who? What? Include a number you can measure.) will have __________________________________________ ______ . (How? Why? Remember to specify results.)

<strong>Learning Activity</strong>

Read Silberman, M. L., &amp; Biech, E. (2015). <em>Active training: A handbook of techniques, designs, case examples, and tips (4th ed.).</em> Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons (Pages 13-18 and Chap. 1)

<strong>Learning Activity:</strong>

Blog Post: In SMART format, and colour coded with a legend (eg S = one colour, M = a different colour, etc.), write one affective, one behavioural and one cognitive goal that you have for taking this course.  Comment on how writing clear goals for yourself about this course might impact your performance and motivation. Respond to at least two others’ blogs.  See if you can clearly determine the "SMARTness" of their goals.

&nbsp;

<strong>Topic 2: Writing Objectives</strong>

<strong>Introduction</strong>

Once you have goals established, the next step is to break them down into specific training objectives.  As Silberman says:  “Each goal will have one or more objectives that, when met, will identify accomplishment of that goal” (pp. 44-45).  Writing clear objectives requires <a href="https://www.bu.edu/cme/forms/RSS_forms/tips_for_writing_objectives.pdf">action verbs</a>.

&nbsp;

To develop SMART Objectives follow this format:

By _________________ (When?) (Who? What? Include a number you can measure.) will have ______________________________________________ . <strong> (How? Why? Remember to specify results.)

<strong>Learning Activity</strong>

Blog Post: In SMART format, and colour coded with a legend (eg S = one colour, M = a different colour, etc.), write two objectives for each goal.  Comment on how writing clear objectives might encourage individual progress monitoring. Respond to at least two others’ blogs.  See if you can clearly determine the "SMARTness" of their objectives and the alignment to their associated goals.

<strong>Learning Activity</strong>

Read Silberman, M. L., &amp; Biech, E. (2015). <em>Active training: A handbook of techniques, designs, case examples, and tips (4th ed.</em>). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons (Chap. 2; 15 and 17)

&nbsp;

<strong>Topic 3: Ethical Goals and Objectives</strong>

<strong>Introduction</strong>

As mentioned briefly above, sometimes the SMARTER acronym refers to E as ethical goals.

Richard Paul and Linda Elder, founders of the Foundation for Critical Thinking co-authored <a href="http://www.criticalthinking.org/files/SAM-EthicalReasoning2005.pdf"><em>The Miniature Guide to understanding the Foundations of Ethical Reasoning</em></a> (2005).  Here are some key points from the open-source booklet:

<ul>
    <li>Ethics is not necessarily the same as behaving in accordance with social conventions, religious beliefs or the law.</li>
    <li>The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights documents principles of ethical treatment that transcend religion and culture.</li>
    <li>Living ethically is to act in ways that enhance the wellbeing of others. This is challenging give our natural modus operendi is often to focus on ourselves and those connected with us. This egocentrism is a fundamental barrier to ethical reasoning.</li>
    <li>Ethical reasoning requires an accurate understanding of the relevant facts and a reasonable interpretation of those facts. It requires self and social critique and the ability to serve one’s interests while respecting the rights and needs of others. This is challenging given that we live in a world rife with propaganda, self-deception and fake news.</li>
</ul>

Thinking through our goals and objectives with an ethical lens is imperative for the Transformational Servant Leader (TSL) because by definition the TSL is interested in fostering the growth and wellbeing of their followers.  A service mindset based on ethical principles should therefore inform all training and organizational goals and objectives.

<strong> </strong><strong>Learning Activity</strong>

View <a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/barry_schwartz_using_our_practical_wisdom?utm_campaign=tedspread&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_source=tedcomshare">video</a> of psychologist Barry Schwartz dive into the question "<em>How do we do the right thing</em>?" With help from collaborator Kenneth Sharpe, he shares stories that illustrate the difference between following the rules and truly choosing wisely. This has implications for the goals and objectives we set so listen with this in mind.

<strong>Learning Activity: </strong>

<strong>Blog </strong>Describe an activity, exercise or learning moment that you have experienced that lead to more personal awareness, empowerment, higher self-esteem and personal significance.

&nbsp;

<strong>Unit Summary</strong>

In this unit, you have had the opportunity to learn about the importance and method of writing goals and objectives. These become your learning targets and are very important to define clearly so that you design activities, choose materials, plan sequencing and evaluate your original intents strategically with these ends in mind. While the learning outcomes or goals of a particular class normally remain the same, the objectives related to content and methods may well change depending on currency, response of previous learners, effectiveness of the sequence etc.

<strong> </strong>

<strong>Assessment: Reading Response</strong>

<strong><em>Reading Check Week 4 </em></strong>Based on the assigned reading, this Reading Response is meant to encourage careful reading and thinking about the course material.  These are questions requiring clearly targeted and succinct paragraph answers. Accuracy and composition are evaluated.

&nbsp;

<strong>Brookfield Chapter 8 Negotiating the Emotions of Powerful Teaching </strong>

<ol>
    <li>ARCS Model of Motivational Design</li>
</ol>

Keller’s ARCS model of motivational design of instruction notes four components of motivation: Attention, Relevance, Confidence and Satisfaction. Reflect on how you can incorporate these four components into adult learning and instruction in your context.  See <a href="http://www.arcsmodel.com">http://www.arcsmodel.com</a>

&nbsp;

<strong>Silberman Chapter 4 Preparing Brain-Friendly Presentations and Wang Chapter 11 What Neuroscience Has to Say About the Brain and Learning</strong>

<ol start="2">
    <li>Lecturing is efficient in conveying information but "will never lead to real learning" unless the instructor works to involve participants. Looking at the suggestions in this chapter, choose three ways to enhance lecturing and describe them with examples from your context.</li>
</ol>

&nbsp;

<strong>Wang, Chapter 12, "Building a Culture of Competers by Understanding the Etiology of Adult Learning Deficits," pages 311-319.</strong>

<ol start="3">
    <li>What are the effects of poverty and trauma on adult learning? What kinds of transformational learning supports and environments are most conducive for learners who have experienced poverty and/or trauma?</li>
</ol>

&nbsp;

<strong>Checking your Learning</strong>

Use the learning outcomes for this unit as a checklist of understanding before you move to the next unit.

<ul>
    <li>Can you explain the importance of setting clear learning targets?</li>
    <li>Can you write SMART goals?</li>
    <li>Can you write SMART objectives that align with the goal and focus on what you want participants to value, understand or do with given content?</li>
</ul>

<strong> </strong>

<strong>Resources</strong>

Schwartz, B. (2015). <a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/barry_schwartz_using_our_practical_wisdom?utm_campaign=tedspread&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_source=tedcomshare">video</a> "<em>How do we do the right thing</em>?"

Silberman, M. L., &amp; Biech, E. (2015). <em>Active training: A handbook of techniques, designs, case examples, and tips (4th ed</em>.). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons (Pages 13-18, Chapters 1, Chap. 2, 15 and 17)

&nbsp;

Wang, C. X. (2017). <em>Theory and Practice of Adult and Higher Education</em>. Information Age Publishing Inc. Chapters 12, 16
